*DESIGN OF HAMMING CODE AS ERROR-REDUCING  CODE*

**PROJECT GOAL :**

*  Our main contribution is to show a lower bound on the average number of errors remaining in the decoded message with standard decoding  while two errors are introduced by an adversary.

*  We also show that this lower bound is achievable for Hamming codes.

*  Standard decoding is not the best decoding method for the purpose of error reduction. We explore several other potential decoding methods for Hamming codes, and experimentally show that it is possible to beat the standard decoding lower bound on average number of errors. 

*  This demonstration will be followed by several algorithms that attempt to maximize the reduction in errors along with an analysis of the performance and scalability of each algorithm.


**OUTCOMES AND OBJECTIVES :**

* In this implementation we initiate the study of the error-reducing property for classical families of error-correcting codes. 

* It was found that the error reduction capabilities of Hamming codes are limited when standard decoding is used, inviting the study of other decoding methods. Several other decoding algorithms were implemented for Hamming codes and found to be more effective for reducing errors than standard decoding. 

* It is also of interest to explore other decoding methods to provide a greater level of error reduction with low complexity.

* Future work should address the best possible reduction that can be achieved as no lower bound is known in general. 

* Finally, it will be of interest to compute the error-reducing properties of other well-known families of codes such as BCH codes. 

* Finally, it will be of interest to compute the error-reducing properties of other well-known families of codes such as BCH codes. 


**CONSTRAINS :**

* When multiple errors are introduced into a codeword, there is no guarantee of correct recovery of messages. 

* We show that in that situation as well, it can be possible for a Hamming code to reduce the number of errors contained in that codeword in the decoded message.

**ABOUT IMPLEMENTATION :**

* We proved that the matrix we found is the optimal generator matrix for the [7,4,3]-Hamming code with standard decoding in terms of the mean number of errors in the received message for every possible error vector. 

## Concept behind Error reducing Capabilities of Hamming Codes

* Let G be the generator matrix and H be a PArity check Matrix for the Hamming Code [7,4,3].
* G=
      * 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 
      * 1 0 0 1 1 0 0 
      * 0 1 0 1 0 1 0
      * 0 0 1 1 0 0 1
*  H=
      * 0 0 0 1 1 1 1
      * 0 1 1 0 0 1 1
      * 1 0 1 0 1 0 1
* In the standard Decoding of the Hamming code,let x be a dataword.The Codeword can be generated by G^T * x=y; y is the generated Codeword,G^T is the transpose matrix of the 
     Generator Matrix.
* Now let e be the error vector introduced in the channel.We will add e in the codeword y,so the received erreneous codeword would be y+e.
* Now the position at which error has occured can be known by multiplying the received codeword with the Parity Matrix .i.e H *  (y+e)  will give the column 
  of the H matrix,by knowing the column number we can flip that particular bit of our erreneous codeword anf can find the required dataword which is mapped to that 
   particular codeword.
* Then we will compare the original dataword and the received dataword i.e find hamming distance between the two.
* We will do this for all the possible datawords of length 4 and all the error vectors that can be generated .
* For example:-
  If we want to introduce 2 errors then there is 7!/5!*2! combinations of error vectors and 16 combinations of datawords,therefore the total number of valid codewords are
  336.
  On running this standard Decoding  Algorithm the average number of errors found is 1.8571.


* Lemma 1:-let q be the column number of the Parity Matrix in which error has occured in the Standard Decoding, then it is independent of the transmitted message ,it 
just depends upon the error introduced.
* Lemma 2:-The number of error in the decoded message in the standard decoding is indepedent of the transmitted message.
* Optimal Standard Decoding:-

* lower bound for [7,4,3] Hamming code for standard decoding:-
  If we change our generator Matrix to 
*  G=
     * 1 1 1 0 0 0 0
     * 0 1 1 1 1 0 0
     * 0 1 0 1 0 1 0
     * 0 0 1 1 0 0 1
*  Then the average number of errors introduced decreases to 1.7143.While this improvement is relatively small, this Hamming code reaches the maximum level of error reduction that is theoretically possible for the
[7, 4, 3]-Hamming code with standard decoding. This means that for any [7, 4, 3]-Hamming code with two errors, the error reducing capabilities of standard decoding is limited to an
average of 1.7143 errors across all possible error vectors.

* Other decoding Algorithms:-
* A)Minimum of Sums Decoding
* B)Minimum of maximums Decoding
* C)Majority bit Decoding

* We havent implemented these as there explanation was not in the given paper and we were't able to get their proper explanation in other research papers also.
